Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to go over titles in your job description.
What's important in the title what's not important in a title.
What are freelancers and contractors look for.
What are they going to notice and what are things that just fall flat.
Not important at all.
We take a pretty simple approach to it.
But there's a couple additional things that will dramatically increase the amount of project proposals
that you get so see in the screencast.
OK.
And so to demonstrate how titles work how important they are.
Just to show you what an L.A. post page looks like now.
This is pretty much what is going to look like on all the other posting platforms.
It is the first thing you do and it's always going to be limited to usually around 75 characters.
The other ones are a little bit different but it doesn't particularly matter.
Now why is getting a good title important.
While it's not the most important thing in the world but if you get the wrong title what can happen.
A lot of times you can have a false start with your posting if you don't label it correctly you can
get a batch of people who don't understand what you're asking for and then they automatically bid.
Now most of these posting platforms have a problem where people whenever they read a post they're almost
automatically going to bid because they're trying to maximize the efficiency of their time.
So a lot of them post and they bid pretty much everywhere.
So you want to essentially block the people who are not capable of doing your job from ever clicking
on your post at the same time.
Also you want to use positive adjectives and positive descriptors to pull in the correct people.
So titles are not particularly complicated and I not one of those things that I want you to completely
over think but I want to give you some best practices that we use and then I can show you roughly what
other people have done and what they do right.
What they do wrong so I usually like to start off with a sentence of what it is and you could start
with a verb.
You can say need this done.
Build this edit this.
That's perfectly fine.
Does it need to be in perfect grammar.
The people reading it aren't going to have perfect grammar anyway so as an example we could say build
a mobile app.
OK so that's generic so build a mobile application now.
Really mobile app right there that's going to limit how many people are going to see this.
That's kind of the backbone of your posting title.
OK.
But after this this is when we start getting a little bit more specific and we start adding in extra
adjectives and extra features so if I said build a mobile app OK well when someone reads that failing
to make Web sites that don't make mobile apps they're obviously going to skip over it.
That's good.
But we want to get more specific.
So one thing I always suggest doing in your titles is if you have any specific requirements for technology
or skills put it in your title.
Now a lot of people don't do that.
And then they just change the category of work or they load in specific skills later in the job posting.
But I prefer to make it that much more obvious so that someone who's browsing this from the browse page
doesn't see your thing go in and bid when they're missing one of the crucial skills.
So what I would do here is build a mobile application now build a mobile application could be there's
multiple things it could be it's an iOS application is it Android is it Windows Phone.
Is it a hybrid application that you use say like phone gap or something like that.
Is it a web app a lot of people incorrectly label that phone call a mobile application when it really
it's a web application that loads on your phone.
So you have to kind of specify that whether or not it's native or whether it's a web application.
So to get specific I would say I would want to go back and get a little bit more specific so I could
say iOS mobile application and then I can append something like native.
Now for those of you not aware are not familiar with mobile applications native means that it's written
in the native programming language to iOS.
You really don't need to concern yourself with that.
But that is a feature that I would put if I was concerned with making an application for Aiwass that's
not just a glorified web page.
OK so now this is where I would add a little bit more information about what it does or what it's like.
Now a lot of times people are going to make something that's a copycat of something else or it has similar
functionality to something else.
That's important because when you're looking for someone who has who is going to build your application
build your job or to be a long term partner.
You want to make sure that they have worked on something similar to this in the past so if you say it's
like this Web site they can automatically know what functionality is in that.
Like that comparable Web site what that comparable Web site does.
And if they have a good understanding of what it is there's a very good chance they understand how it
works and perhaps they've actually worked on something that has similar functionality.
So if you're building a comparable application I always like to say like this you know something like
a popular application so you could say like Uber.
OK so if I said like Uber anybody who sees build an iOS mobile app like Uber knows what that application
looks like.
Now if they haven't used Uber they're much less likely to actually bid on your project.
That's what we want and always keep in mind it's all about making a title that encourages people who
are good applicants to apply and it discourages bad applicants from applying.
Now if you don't have a comparable for the project that you're posting.
Alternatively you could just describe kind of the theme or the Neech or whatever category it's in.
So I could say and again you really need to care about grammar but I could say build an iOS mobile application.
I could say real estate.
Now why is that important.
It's not really important but it's it's helpful for people to remember this job post as they're scrolling
through lists and lists of projects they might see the word real estate and remember.
Now if I just said built in Iowa mobile application they can very easily forget about it forget to come
back to it.
A lot of these people are going to be bidding.
They read your application and then they save it and come back to it to write their proposal.
Not all of them do that but some of them do actually put some time into this.
So it's helpful to give them some kind of a career more they can remember what it is you know and so
it could be really be anything.
Build a dating iOS app real estate whatever it is that you're doing.
What's the theme.
Now that also is very helpful because a lot of people if I said say build a dating iOS Milwaukee and
you might get some people who come in and say Hey I've worked on other dating Web sites or I've worked
on clones that look like tender or whatever.
And that's a huge leg up that's an advantage we always want to look for contractors who are familiar
with what you're doing and and hopefully familiar with the space.
OK so now that we've built kind of the core of whatever the title is remember you build the core then
you add details.
Now we're going to get to the last thing which is adding perks.
Perks are very important perks are something that catches the contractor's attention something that
brings them in.
It's something that you can use to automatically kind of capture the people that you're looking for.
So say you're building something that's really small.
OK.
It's often very helpful to say small in it if you're building something that should be done very quickly.
It's very easy to say quickly or something short.
Project something like that.
Now what that does is it number one looks are people who are looking for a short project but also incentivize
people to bid because they think oh this is something I can do very quickly.
That's one of the problems in these posting web sites is when you post a big project a lot of people
kind of they're discouraged from posting because they want to do things that have instant gratification
they can get paid for immediately.
But also one of the big concerns of contractors is that they build up their review base and a lot of
them are not happy with the review base they have.
So if they have one review two reviews they're not going to be interested in you know jumping on to
a four month project that for the next four months they're not going to improve their profile anyway.